All right in this video we're gonna talk about
writing tests for our SingleItem.
This is gonna sorta set the way for writing the test
for the rest of our components that all have queries
inside of them and then we're also gonna learn
how to do mutations in a coming video.
So this is a component where we have our SingleItem
but in order for the SingleItem to work
it requires a query that's past the id of an item
that will hit the database and come back with that item,
and then we'll be able to go ahead and either
render out the Error, render out Loading...
or actually render out No Item Found
or finally render out the SingleItem.
So we need to write tests that make sure
that all four of these things are going to be working.
So this is what we're gonna do.
We're going to be using something called mocking.
Now it's not going to be mocking a function
like I showed you earlier, but we're actually
going to mocking the entire Apollo store
and feeding it dummy data that it should resolve to,
so it's not actually gonna reach outside to the database.
So let's open up our test folder
and make a new one called SingleItem.test.js.
Inside of there we'll import.
We're gonna mount these ones, and in order for us
to actually test that everything works we need to mount.
Now that's because if we were just to shallow render this,
we would just render out the query tag,
and then the actual important stuff
which is the styles and the image tag
and the divs and everything, all of that stuff
needs to be shown in order for us to see
that we need to do a full on mount.
So we'll import  from 'enzyme';.
We're gonna import our toJSON from 'enzyme-to-json';.
I'm going to import wait from 'waait';,
W-A-A-I-T, and I'll explain why we need
that in just a second.
This is just a little package that I wrote myself.
Then we need to import our SingleItem as well as,
let's open up SingleItem real quick and triple check.
Oh, we didn't export it.
We need this SingleItem but we also need this query
that we wrote here, so let's export that as well.
Make sure you go ahead and do that.
It's probably going to need to make sure
that we export all of our queries
and mutations from each of the components
so that we can go into here and import it.
We'll go into that component
and we'll grab it from our SingleItem.
Next we need to import from React Apollo.
We need to import a MockedProvider and that is
from 'react-apollo/test-utils',
so this is sort of a sub-package
that we're importing it from,
and I'll show you how and why we are using that.
Next we need to import a fakeItem
from to go up a level into our '../lib/
and grab it from testUtils.
So if we open up testUtils right here,
you're going to see that...
Let's explain what's going on right here.
So we have a fakeItem that has an Item, an id, a price,
an image, a title, description, and a largeImage.
Then we have a fakeUser, which has obviously an id.
I'm using this package called casual,
which is sort of a dummy data generator,
and then we seed it by giving it a consistent number,
and what that will do is ensure that we consistently
get the same random name and id from casual.
Otherwise every single time that we run this testUtil
it's gonna give us a new random name,
and then that's not good for our consistency of tests
and snapshots because we need it to be exactly the same.
So by running seed it makes sure
that they're consistently random.
Does that make sense? (laughs)
But we grab a name and an email,
we create fakeOrderitems, fakeOrders, fakeCartItems,
and then I think that is it.
There's a LocalStorageMock in here as well.
If you ever need to
fake LocalStorage this is what you'll use to do that because
we're not actually running it in a browser environment.
We're running it in node and LocalStorage is just
a browser API so this is us mocking that entire thing.
So that's all of our dummy data that we have there.
We are just importing fakeItem from the testUtils.
And I believe we can get going.
So first thing we'll do is describe the SingleItem
and the first thing we'll say
it('renders with proper data',
make that an async function and
I'll show you why in just a second.
Now this is the important part.
I'm gonna show you how we can try do it without any mocking,
and I'll show you why it actually fails.
So let's try, go ahead and mount this thing.
So const wrapper = mount
and we'll just go ahead and say SingleItem
and that needs an id="123".
Then if we were to try Run that specific test.
I'll run npm test.
And this test should fail. Here we go, let's see why.
<SingleItem/> > renders with data.
Invariant Violation; Could not find "client"
in the context of Query or as passed props.
Wrap the root component in an <ApolloProvider>.
So what we're trying to do here is we are trying
to render out a SingleItem where the SingleItem,
it's assuming that you're always going to render
the SingleItem inside of a provider.
Right, if we take a look at our, what is it,
our app.js, here we go.
We are always wrapping our entire application
in an ApolloProvider, but in the case of our test
we're taking it totally outside of the context
that we have in our application,
and what happens when a SingleItem tries
to query something, it looks to it's parents,
it looks in contexts for a Apollo client
to actually query it against,
and if there is no Apollo client that it can query against
then it's going to break and that's exactly why we have it.
Now, we're not actually gonna hook it up to our
real database because that would make it very brittle,
so what we're going to do is we're going to
mock the entire provider, and the way that we do that
is you, I'm gonna put these each on their own line.
And we're going to use a MockedProvider that we have there
and put the item inside of it.
And then we need to provide what are called mocks
to the MockedProvider so that when we run it
the data will resolve to it.
So let's go right above here and we'll say
const mocks =, you can give it an array,
and each item in the array is going to be an object.
And then inside of that we are going to say
request;, which is an object itself,
the { query: SINGLE_ITEM_QUERY, variables;
is going to be an object with the id;'123'.
So what we're doing here, that's request,
what we're doing here is that we are going to make
some fake data that gets returned,
and we're saying // when someone makes a request with this
query and variable combo //
then return this fake data,
mocked data,
so then we say the result
is going to be exactly as our GraphQL database is
returning to us, so the data is going to be
an object that has an item inside of it
and that item: is going to be a fakeItem().
Let's go over that real quick once more.
Mocks are pairs of requests and results,
saying that when somebody, when the application
fires off a query that matches this
and matches this id,
then let's return the following fake data.
And then we can go to our MockedProvider
and pass at those mocks.
We'll say mocks =
the mocks variable that we just created right here.
And then what happens is when this SingleItem
renders itself out, it should be using
that fakeItem in here, so let's go
and just console.log the wrapper
and debug it to see if it's actually working.
Go here. There we go.
This is what we were looking for so far.
We got the ApolloProvider that has been mocked up.
Then we get our SingleItem inside of it.
The query gets run, and we are initially
seeing Loading... so that's exactly what we wanna see
because on the initial, the first render you will see
Loading... because it's currently querying the database.
So, we can check for that.
We'll say expect
the (wrapper.text()).toContain('Loading...');
and I think that's, is that what we typed into here?
Loading..., yep.
And...
Looks like it's working. Good.
I'm gonna take that debug out.
Now we need to, how do you wait
until it has actually finished?
Well, there's a couple options that we have here.
You can actually pass a delay of like 55 milliseconds
and that will allow us to wait 55 milliseconds.
I never do that because I don't actually want to
introduce any sort of waiting into my tests,
but what happens is that if you were to
wait for one tick,
and the way that JavaScript events work
is if you simply just introduce a zero second time mount
the next line of code will be put on
to the end of the call stack in JavaScript.
So by waiting zero milliseconds
it will wait until the next render has actually happened
because we put this at the end of the call stack
and then we know that our SingleItem will be fixed.
I actually had to do a whole bunch of research into
why this wasn't working and I ended up making
this little package called
npm.waait,
and, oh, wow, this package seems to have taken off.
I think it's because
they
put it in the docks...
Yes, so testing the final state,
this is the package that I've made.
It's now part of the Apollo documentation
where you will get the loading state initially
and if you wait zero milliseconds
then you'll be able to find what you want.
So all this package does is await zero milliseconds.
If you were to look it up on GitHub
and look at the index.JS this is all the code behind it.
It's a function that returns a promise
that resolves after a set amount of time,
and by default it will resolve after zero milliseconds.
And that's just a weird thing about JavaScript,
in that if you wait for zero milliseconds
it will put it on the end of the call stack.
We could also use that for waiting
any number of milliseconds if we want.
But we'll go here and so we'll just
await wait(); and then
we can console.log the wrapper again.
I believe that will update.
We might have to manually update it ourselves.
Let's see here.
And we still get the Loading...
state so I think if we call wrapper.update();
There we go. Then it will actually go,
it'll go back to the component, update itself,
and then we can debug.
So let's see what we're working on right here.
Network error: No more mocked responses for query
SINGLE_ITEM id.
Where are the id? Okay.
That's fine. So what that's saying is that we have a query
that is trying to use the id="123" and, ah, there it is.
It's not matching up with anything in our mocks.
That's because I spelled variables wrong.
Story of my life. Hey, hey! It looks like it's working.
We've got our image with the dog in there.
We are viewing dogs are the best.
Our paragraph that says dogs.
So you see how it's now rendering out with our mocked data
pretty good, pretty excited about that.
So we can go ahead and start doing
some more assertions here.
We'll expect, we'll just stick it in a (toJSON())
the wrapper.find, the 'h2' tag,
and I wanna say toMatchSnapshot();.
So what I'm doing here is I'm not going to
Snapshot the entire component because
I'll show you why I'm not.
Let's try snapshotting the entire component.
Expect the (toJSON(wrapper)).toMatchSnapshot.
Give it a save. It will run. It wrote.
It wrote a little snapshot for us so that's good,
and we can go ahead and view that snapshot,
and holy, look at this!
This is not a good snapshot, why, because the entire
mocked ApolloProvider is gonna come along
for the ride in that snapshot,
and that doesn't make for a very good snapshot.
So we could snapshot just this little part right here,
but what I prefer to do is just find the pieces
that you're trying to make sure are looking good
and just snapshot those individually.
So that's exactly what we're going to do right now.
We'll close that. We will get rid of that.
Bring this back, we're gonna find the 'h2'
and we're gonna match the snapshot with that.
And we will replace anything that shows up.
Click you. That's good.
And I'm also gonna duplicate this three more times,
so we want the image and we want the paragraph tag.
So let's go back to our terminal here, update them all
and then let's just check out our SingleItem snapshot
to make sure everything is working.
So SingleItem, the h2, viewing dogs are the best,
we have our image tag, good, and then we also
have our description that's showing up here.
So those are all looking really good,
really happy about that.
So that is how you will test most of your components.
You write a mock and then you go ahead
and mount it with a MockedProvider,
you will wait for the Loading... state to pass
and then you can go ahead and start
testing how everything works.
Now, there's a couple other things we need to test
in here as well, so we'll it(Errors with a not found item',
make sure you mark that as async.
We'll make some new mocks here
const mocks = [] an array,
in that array you have as many mocks as you want.
We'll look at some examples where you have multiple mocks
because sometimes a query could be fetched
two or three times and every single time you fetch it
maybe the data will change from one thing to another,
so we'll look at that, don't worry, that's coming up.
Inside of that we want the request,
it's going to be a query.
This is actually the exact same
so we can copy this from here.
Then the result
is going to instead of specifying
what data gets passed we are going to specify
the errors that get thrown in this specific use case.
So we'll say the errors are an array of errors.
The first error is going to have a message
that says Items Not Found!
Then we'll go ahead and render that sucker out,
so you can just take this whole sucker
and pop it right here.
Then we'll await wait(); zero
we don't care about the Loading... state in this case.
We will update it,
and then we will, let's just console.log the wrapper
and debug it.
See what we're working with here.
There we go. It says items not found.
So we can go ahead and grab that error
and then go ahead and check that it says
Items Not Found! inside of it.
Now I'm going to show you another
little trick that I like to use.
Being able to grab onto this specific component
ErrorMessage, ErrorStyles, there's not really anything
good on here except for this,
where I've put a data-test.
So where it's a use case where you're finding it
a little bit hard to actually grab on to the element
that you want, I often will put just a data-test
attribute on the element that you're looking to grab,
and that will make it really easy to
actually go ahead and pull out.
So we might be going back into a lot of our components
now and adding these data-tests.
And how do you select that?
Well, we'll say const item = wrapper.find()
and we're gonna look for data-test="graphql-error".
I believe that's right, yep, graphql-error
and let's console.log(item.debug());
And now you actually see, see this is what we're
really looking for and at this point
we can expect(item.text()).toContain
something like, what did it say here?
Items Not Found!
Give it a save. And that will pass.
Another thing we could do is, and I like this
a little bit better, is to just a snapshot.
So expect(toJSON(item)).toMatchSnapshot();.
And that will update another item.
We go back into our snapshot here
and we say...
Where did it go?
Maybe it's at the top here. Here we go.
<SingleItem/> Errors with a not found item
and we have our paragraph tag with our Shoot!
And our Items Not Found!
Good, good, good.
So that is testing our single component,
that is how all of our queries are going to work.
Now getting into mutations is a little more difficult,
but it does follow the exact same principles
in terms of mocking and returning data.
We're just gonna have a couple more mocks that come along,
as well as simulating some click and submit events.